Documentation and Summary page improvements (#321)
phyloref/klados: docs/ExportFormats.md

# Export Formats

## Summary table CSV export

The summary table CSV export includes the following columns:

> * `Phyloreference ID`: A URL or URI (absolute, relative or local) that identifies this phyloreference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Phyloreference ID`: A URI (absolute, relative or local; may or may not resolve) that identifies this phyloreference. Normally intended for machine consumption.
```

Reviewer: A URL is a URI, so it sounds weird to say _URL or URI_.

  * Example `#Alligatoridae`

> * `Label`: A label used to identify this phyloreference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Label`: A label for this phyloreference, normally intended for human consumption.
```

  * Example: `Alligatoridae`
* `Type`: The type of this phyloreference.
  * May be one of the following values:
    * `Apomorphy-based clade definition`
    * `Maximum clade definition`
    * `Minimum clade definition`

>     * `Invalid definition (...)` (with the reason for the invalid definition in brackets)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `Invalid definition (...)` (with the reason for the invalid definition in parentheses)
```

> * `Definition`: The clade definition as entered in the `Definition in free-form text`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Definition`: The (human readable) clade definition as entered in the `Definition in free-form text`.
```

  * Example: `Last common ancestor of Crocodylus niloticus, Osteolaemus tetraspis, and Tomistoma schlegelii and all of its descendents.`
* `Internal specifier N`: A description of each internal specifier (_N_ is a number starting from 1).
  * Example: `Caiman crocodilus`
* `External specifier N`: A description of each external specifier (_N_ is a number starting from 1).
  * Example: `Caiman crocodilus`

> * `Phylogeny: [Phylogeny label] expected`: The node resolved for this phylogeny (_N_ is a number starting from 1, and _Phylogeny label_ is the label of this phylogeny).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Phylogeny: [Phylogeny label] expected`: The node in this phylogeny to which the phyloreference was expected to resolve (by the author) (_Phylogeny label_ is the label of this phylogeny).
```

Reviewer: There is no _N_ (nor should there be, right?), so I deleted the part about explaining _N_ (potentially a leftover from overzealous copy&paste?)

Reviewer: And are you sure this should be the label of the phylogeny and not the node in the phylogeny?

>   * Example: `Alligatoridae`

Reviewer: This isn't compliant with the current item format description?

Author: It's supposed to be the label of the node on the specified phylogeny where this phyloreference is expected to resolve -- so if phyloref #Alligatorinae is expected to resolve at the node "Alligatoridae" on the phylogeny "Fig 1 from Brochu 2003", the column will be named "Phylogeny: Fig 1 from Brochu 2003 expected" and will have the value "Alligatoridae". Does this make sense, or do I need to clarify something?

> * `Phylogeny: [Phylogeny label] actual`: The node resolved for this phylogeny (_N_ is a number starting from 1, and _Phylogeny label_ is the label of this phylogeny).

Reviewer: See above comments for _expected_, they apply here too.

Author: Fixed in f9d2be48fed98f76e2a7e1491c0e6fcf9d348ffd.

>   * Example: `Alligatoridae_ott195670`, or `(unlabelled)` if the node has no label

Reviewer: Isn't it Tidy Data practice to have NA or an equivalent value representation to signify that there is no value? Why should we make up a special string to signify the absence of a value? Or is this the special value that's already present on the phylogeny?

Author: The idea behind `(unlabelled)` was to distinguish between the case where a phyloref doesn't resolve at all (I think we currently represent this as blank in the `Phylogeny: [Phylogeny label] actual` field) and the case where it does resolve, but it does so on a node that doesn't have a label. Some options:
- `NA` for unlabelled node and blank for no resolution
- `(unlabelled)` (or some other standard string) for unlabelled node and `NA` (or some other string, e.g. `(could not resolve)`, `None`) for no resolution
- `NA: unlabelled node` vs `NA: could not resolve`
- We could use the internal node identifier, which looks something like `#phylogeny0_node0`, if the resolved node is unlabelled and blank if the phyloref could not be resolved
- Add additional `Phylogeny: [Phylogeny label] error` column, which is blank unless the `... actual` column is `NA`.

What do you think?

Reviewer: Perhaps this: _We could use the internal node identifier, which looks something like #phylogeny0_node0, if the resolved node is unlabelled and blank if the phyloref could not be resolved_?

But on reflection, using `(unlabelled)` and `(could not resolve)` seem at least as clear if not clearer.

Author: > But on reflection, using `(unlabelled)` and `(could not resolve)` seem at least as clear if not clearer.

Agreed! I've implemented this in 5464ea6b6012d92c90cfda15d328029feb8a6cef.

Author: I've made this a bit clearer in d9f349f:

* `Phylogeny: [Phylogeny label] expected`: The label of the node in the specified phylogeny to which the phyloreference was expected to resolve.
  * Example: `Alligatoridae`
  * Will be set to `(none)` if no expected node was found.
* `Phylogeny: [Phylogeny label] actual`: The label of the node actually resolved for this phyloreference in the specified phylogeny.
  * Example: `Alligatoridae_ott195670`
  * Will be set to `(resolution not yet run)` if resolution has not yet been run.
  * Will be set to `(could not resolve)` if this phyloreference could not be resolved.
  * Will be set to `(unlabelled)` if a node was resolved, but it had no label.
